# Vim Enhancements for Programmers

## Folding and Outlining

**Folding** lets you define **what parts of the file you see**.
Folding is a **two-stage process**. **First**, using any of several fold methods, you **define what constitutes a block of text to fold**. **Then**, when you **use a fold command**, Vim  hides  the  designated  text  and  leaves  in  its  place  a  one-line  placeholder.

Several options control how Vim creates and displays folds. Also, if you’ve taken the
time  to  create  many  folds,  Vim  provides  the  convenience  commands  `:mkview` and `:loadview` to preserve folds between sessions so you don’t have to create them
again.

For power users, Vim offers **six different ways** to define, create, and manipulate folds.


- **manual**: Define the span of a fold with standard Vim constructs, such as motion commands.
- **indent**: Folds and fold levels correspond to the indentation of text and the value of the option shiftwidth.
- **expr**  : Regular expressions define folds.
- **syntax**: Folds correspond to the semantics of a file’s language .
- **diff**  : The differences between two files define folds.
- **marker**: Predefined (but also user-definable) markers in the file specify fold boundaries.

Make sure folding is turned on with the command:
```
:set foldenable
```

Define your folding method as `manual`:
```
:set foldmethod=manual
```

### The Fold Commands

Fold commands all begin with `z`.

| Commands | Descriptions |
|:--------:|--------------|
| `zf` | Create a fold from the current line to the one where the following motion command takes the cursor. |
| *count*`zF` | Create a fold covering count lines, starting with the current line. |
| `za` | Toggle the state of one fold. |
| `zo` | Open one fold. |
| `zc` | Close one fold. |
| `zd` | Delete one fold. |
| `zj, zk` | Move cursor to the start (`zj`) of the next fold or to the end (`zk`) of the previous fold. | 
| `zi` | Toggle the value of the `foldenable` option. |
| `zm, zr` | Decrement (zm) or increment (zr) the value of the `foldlevel` option by one. | 
| `zA` | Toggle the state of folds, recursively. |
| `zO` | Open folds, recursively. |
| `zC` | Close folds, recursively. |
| `zD` | Delete folds, recursively. |
| `zE` | Eliminate all folds. | 
| `zM` | Set option `foldlevel` to 0. | 
| `zN,zn` | Set (zN) or reset (zn) the `foldenable` option. |

`zA`, `zC`, `zD`, and `zO` are called recursive because they operate on all folds nested within the one where you issue the commands.

显示左侧的折叠状态，使用`:set foldcolumn=n`命令，或者在配置文件中，设置

```
set foldcolumn=5
```

## Auto and Smart Indenting

Vim offers **four increasingly complex and powerful methods** to automatically **indent** text.

Vim offers the following methods, listed in order of increasing sophistication:

- `autoindent`: Auto indentation closely mimics vi’s `autoindent`. It differs subtly as to where the cursor is placed after indentation is deleted.
- `smartindent`: Slightly  more  powerful  than  `autoindent`,  but  it  recognizes  some  basic  C  syntax primitives for defining indentation levels.
- `cindent`: As its name implies, cindent embodies a much richer awareness of C syntax and introduces sophisticated customization beyond simple indentation levels. 
- `indentexpr`: Lets you define your own expression, which Vim evaluates in the context of each new line you begin. With this feature, you write your own rules. 

You can choose the indentation method simply by specifying it in a `:set` command, such as:
```
:set cindent
```

### indentexpr

`indentexpr`, if defined, overrides `cindent` so that you can define indentation rules and tailor them exactly to your language editing needs.

`indentexpr` defines **an expression** to be evaluated each time a new line is created in a file. **This expression** resolves to **an integer** that Vim uses as the indentation of the new line.

**The bad news** is that it is a nontrivial project to write customized indentation rules from scratch for any language. **The good news** is it’s likely that the work is already done. Look in the `$VIMRUNTIME/indent` directory to see whether your favorite language is represented.

You can tell Vim to automatically detect your file type and load the indent file by putting the command `filetype indent on` in your `.vimrc` file. Now Vim will try to detect what file type you are editing and load a corresponding indent definition file for you. 


If the indent rules do not fill your needs—for example, if they indent in some unfamiliar or unwanted fashion—turn the definitions off with the command `:filetype indent off`.

## Keyword and Dictionary Word Completion

Vim offers a comprehensive suite of **insertion-completion** capabilities.

The methods of completion include:

- Whole line
- Current file keywords
- dictionary option keywords
- thesaurus option keywords
- Current and included file keywords
- Tags (as in ctags)
- Filenames
- Macros
- Vim command line
- User-defined
- Omni
- Spelling suggestions
- complete option keywords

Except for `complete` keywords, all completion commands start with `CTRL-X`. The second key specifically defines **the type of completion** Vim attempts.

All completion methods have virtually identical behavior: they cycle through a list of candidate completions as you retype **the second keystroke**.  Additionally, if you press `CTRL-N` (for  “next”),  you move forward through the possibilities, whereas
`CTRL-P` (for “previous”) moves backward.  If you do not want any
of the choices in the list, type `CTRL-E` to halt the match method without substituting any text.


```
CTRL-X CTRL-L    # Completing whole lines
CTRL-X CTRL-N    # Completion by keyword in file
CTRL-X CTRL-K    # Completion by dictionary
CTRL-X CTRL-T    # Completion by thesaurus
CTRL-X CTRL-F    # Completion by filename
CTRL-N           # Completion with the complete option
```

### Completion by dictionary

`CTRL-X` `CTRL-K` searches forward through the files defined by the `dictionary` option for keywords matching the keyword in front of the cursor.

The default setup leaves the `dictionary` option undefined. There are common places to find dictionary files, and you can define your own. The most common dictionary files are:
```
/usr/dict/words (Cygwin on XP)
/usr/share/dict/words (FreeBSD)
$HOME/.mydict (personal list of dictionary words)
```

## Syntax Highlighting

Displaying a file’s syntax highlighting is simple. Just issue the command:
```
:syntax enable
```





